---
categories:
- posts
date: "2024-06-20T10:15:50.000Z"
draft: false
title: Succumb to the tech lifestyle
---

Nowadays, there are many movements and lifestyles to follow: alpha,
sigma, red pill, woke, leftist, rightist. But nobody says anything about
the technicians.

<br>

**Can IT professionals beat the alpha male?**

<br>

I know, I know you think that people who spend most of their time behind
a screen, repairing printers and watching anime, can’t be equal to
*Andrew Tate* or any other self-proclaimed guru.

You might see us as a bunch of [quiche eating
nerds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v:%20_594mPXoHMI) who have no lives
or girlfriends.

But think again. **We’re the Davids in this battle, and we all know how
that story ends**.

### We’re the Builders

![Building softwere meme](/static/unsucesfullbuild.webp)

**When was the last time you built something?**

Not just blindly copied data into an Excel sheet or sent an email, but
truly created something?

Creation is one of our primary human instincts.

It’s the feeling that something is truly yours, that you have control
over it.

**As IT professionals, we create things every day.**

It doesn’t matter how shitty it is.

Your code might not be optimized; a simple for-loop might take two hours
to run.

*But it’s yours.*

From automation scripts to building computers from scratch, we are
constantly creating.

We even build the web so you can brag about your problems and sell your
ponzi schemes.

**We’re the builders.**

### We Love Our Tools

![Proggraming setup meme](/static/setupjoke.png)

Emacs, Vim, Linux, Windows, React, Solid, Ranger, vifm we know them
inside and out.

While most people watch Netflix in their free time, we tinker with
configuration files.

*It’s our fetish.*

But oh boy, how smooth the experience is.

Our world is all about **DX** (*Developer Experience*) and positive
laziness.

**We love automation.**

Do you think all these dotfiles are moved manually?

For every action you do, we have a bot, a shortcut, or a script ready.

*One day, we will automate everything so thoroughly that we won’t be
needed anymore…*

### We’re the learners

![Obsidian setup](/static/obsidian_setup.jpeg)

I’m sure you’ve thought at least once in your life that what you learn
in school won’t help you in the real world.

*There’s no such thought here because there’s no school. It’s just you
and your text editor.*

It’s truly liberating because you find the purpose for learning.

**You learn because you want solve your problem, not just to pass a
test.**

The hands-on experience is constantly intertwined with theoretical
knowledge.

We seek knowledge and have unlimited resources #Google.

Here,you’re never hopeless.

**But really read the f… manual**

If you ever feel stuck or overwhelmed, you can always find a way to
abstract the problem.

We use abstraction to not just solve issues but to simplify and
transform complex concepts into manageable, understandable pieces.

U see one day the abstraction will literally blow your mind.

### We are the community

![How to be a linux user video](/static/how_to_fit.jpg)

People might dive in, gushing about tools and programming languages, but
when they see you creating, they’re always ready to help.

**It doesn’t matter what you’ve done before. What matters is that now
you’re one of us.**

We love to see new faces and fresh ideas.

We have countless Discord channels and communities where we share and
collaborate, embracing everyone who joins.

My friend used to say, *“IT is such a broad field that it will accept
anyone”* and that’s what ultimately drew me to this mentality.

**Here, you’ll find what you love because we have it all.**

From stereotypical programming to UX development, system administration,
data science, and tech marketing.

Pick your poison,

**You don’t have to be a programmer**.

There are plenty of roles that don’t require coding.

*What we need from you is to succumb to the tech lifestyle.*

#### To sum up

I hope you’ve picked your champion because the evidence is overwhelming…

Either way, peace out for now.

Future projects won’t build themselves

PS: Looking forward to the epic rap battle between the
[Primogen](https://www.youtube.com/@ThePrimeTimeagen/featured) and
Andrew Tate!
