---
categories:
- posts
date: "2023-12-21T12:56:50.163Z"
draft: false
title: Learning through self-destruction
---

Terminal is one of *“the last remaining things that bestows absolute
power upon you”*.
![cover](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/fbase-2d77d.appspot.com/o/assets%2Flearning_through_self-destruction%2Fcinematic-computer-monitor.jpg?alt:%20media&token=19ccaf40-f3b1-4b9b-a41e-d282f78bf14a)

It allows you to witness the entire operating system disappear and then
be reborn in a matter of seconds.

*I strongly advise you to try this at home* **sudo rm -rfv /**

When I wrote my first prompt two years ago, I was thrilled. I didn’t
understand much of it, spending hours copying the file because it didn’t
use the path to the cloud drive.

Nevertheless, I realized that the system was mine, and I alone
determined what went in and what went out. As you can imagine, I wasn’t
satisfied with the commands used in the Windows environment.

## The most dangerous person in the entire programming industry is the beginner bash programmer

![Destroyed Linux
Meme](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/fbase-2d77d.appspot.com/o/assets%2Flearning_through_self-destruction%2Fdestroy-the-sytem-meme.jpg?alt:%20media&token=46dab342-7578-4c99-a405-f326a6aa0cb4)

*(especially if they are unaware of tools like **ShellCheck**)*

When I wrote my first scripts, I didn’t care about encapsulating
variables in double quotes;

I didn’t even know what \*\*“\*“\*\* meant.

However, a friend of mine suggested I explore virtual machines for
experimentation.

This proved to be an excellent choice, allowing me to recreate the
system instantly without any fear.

(*To this day, even though I’m a devoted Linux user, VMware and Windows
still have their advantages.*)

I spent countless hours reading about different distributions,
associating them with various desktop environments, feeling the need to
learn one after another, switching between them every couple of days. I
also experimented with various disruptive changes, such as installing
different package managers, relaunching VMs because I lost the plank
layout, and casually messing up all my programs because of casual use
ofsudo apt autoremove. I felt frustrated because I wanted to encapsulate
them all, but it seemingly wasn’t possible. Finally, after about two
months of continuous exploration.

I switched to Manjaro because I wanted to stay current and share the
*“I’m using Arch, by the way”* badge.

## Every Linux user should know this

![Linux
Distributions](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/fbase-2d77d.appspot.com/o/assets%2Flearning_through_self-destruction%2Flinux-distributions.png?alt:%20media&token=b4833272-268f-4a3b-ac3c-93901f0598d8)

It dawned on me that the **desktop manager differed from the
distribution itself**.

I delved deeply into tiling window managers and the art of automating
tasks.

I even started tinkering with desktop files because Qtile refused to run
without the SSDM recognizing them. Reading and adjusting the Qtile
config became my obsession, only to discover that after a minor change,
it errored and moved to the default settings. Frustration led me to
switch to i3.

But it wasn’t without a hassle. Once, I managed to unintentionally
delete all the desktop sessions while attempting to use i3 with XFCE. It
left me with no desktop environment and forced me into a **full system
format** (*a popular way to solve problems in the Linux world*, fast and
without excessive time consumption).

It wasn’t for nothing; format after format, I set up things faster and
faster.

I realized how **regular backups** are important and how the system
operates.

<br>

*I became bolder, more daring, and that’s what ultimately inspired me to
delve into serious programming.*

<br>

## Inputting the word of God/user can do anything

One of my first apps that I built in Python was my interpretation of the
flashcards app with Flask and a templating engine. I was quite proud of
my little project and wasn’t really worried about safety.

So, I gave the app to test to my friend in cybersecurity. He was
clicking around when suddenly he copied **the entire Bible** and input
it into the app.

<br> What’s interesting is that the app didn’t break, but you can
imagine that it was not safe either.

However, the most hilarious aspect of my work for my friend was that you
could input HTML inside the flashcards and query the database that way
(cross-site scripting). But let’s leave that behind in the past…

## What does not kill you makes you stronger

**Don’t be afraid to try messing up your system!**

**Don’t be afraid to tinker with your system!**

It grants you a deeper understanding of what lies beneath the surface.

By making mistakes, you not only learn to avoid problems but also *gain
the ability to fix them in the future*.

![Fire Girl
Meme](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/fbase-2d77d.appspot.com/o/assets%2Flearning_through_self-destruction%2Ffire-girl-meme.jpg?alt:%20media&token=94b21fb2-1902-4708-b321-e5614fb85e28)

<br>

*I killed my system countless times, and yet it always came back.* **In
the end, it’s just software…**
