---
categories:
- posts
date: "2024-01-16T20:01:00.563Z"
draft: false
title: The gold is in the block
---

People often find excitement in the world of crypto, blockchain, and
NFTs, only to fall victim to scams or invest in worthless tokens.

Instead of digging into the systems behind all these treasures, they’re
all about owning stuff on the web. <br> *It’s like they’re hunting for
treasures without a map* <br> What’s kinda funny is that I actually find
the technology itself more intriguing than the supposed treasures it
holds. But there’s always that nagging concern – what if some digital
pirates come to snatch it all away? Well, there’s a cool trick called
[Zero-Knowledge
Proofs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-knowledge_proof)

It’s like a math algorithm that lets you confirm stuff without giving
away your secrets.

Take *cryptocurrency transactions*, for example.

You can check your funds without revealing who you are or your password.

Now, I’ll be honest, I don’t quite grasp all the math behind it – I’m
just a humble software developer.

But you know what? The concept is like stumbling upon a hidden gem
itself. If you wanna dive deeper into this, check out the
[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v:%20fOGdb1CTu5c) It’s a fun
watch!

## Everythign is an account

![Account](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/fbase-2d77d.appspot.com/o/assets%2Fgold_is_in_the_block%2Faccount-structure.png?alt:%20media&token=e72dd981-6171-4ec6-ba80-8757897fa2fc)

Think of blockchain like a bank, always keeping tabs on transactions.

But what sets it apart is the power of [Smart
Contracts](https://docs.solana.com/developing/intro/programs).

These contracts are essentially sets of predefined instructions stored
within accounts on the blockchain.

When specific conditions are met, these instructions automatically
execute, without the need for intermediaries.

Well, the Solana blockchain takes a similar approach, but here,
**“Everything is an Account.”**

In this world, each account is a neat, structured entity with predefined
rules, kind of like how [protocol buffers](https://protobuf.dev/) or
GraphQL APIs work.

When you call programs through
[RPC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call) (*think of it
like making an API call*), it feels a lot like using REST for a
super-sized database with its very own API.

## So, what’s the buzz about if it’s just a fancy database?

![crypto
meme](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/fbase-2d77d.appspot.com/o/assets%2Fgold_is_in_the_block%2Fblockchain-meme.jpg?alt:%20media&token=e00b735c-d4b9-4ed0-b379-8bc22fe32ca5)
Why all the fuss about blockchain, you might ask? It’s similar to folks
mistaking it for rocket science when, in reality, it’s quite a
straightforward process.

Here are the steps: You start by defining all the accounts that’ll be
part of your program’s context.

Then, you write down the instructions for what each account will do and
who’s paying the bill for the execution and uptime (that’s the ‘**gas
fees**’ part).

Once you’ve got that sorted, you deploy it onto the devnet, and your app
creates JavaScript types, that you will use to interact with the
program.

All you really need is a program public key (*program id*), because
smart programs are essentially accounts themselves. And voila!

You’re ready to interact with it, and it’s out there in the world, with
all the records easily accessible.

Now, for the fun part, tools like [Anchor](https://www.anchor-lang.com/)
and [Solana-CLI](https://docs.solana.com/cli) are like your very own
playground in the blockchain world. They make it easy for developers to
dive in and experiment, giving you a chance to go from zero to ‘rich’ in
seconds… well, maybe ‘temporarily rich’ is more like it (*try Solana
airdrop 2*).

If you ask me, it’s worth a shot. Building yet another dull CRUD app
might just start feeling thrilling all over again. Plus, Solana even
offers a native [solana playground](https://beta.solpg.io/) where you
can test it out without configuring anything.

## NFTs: More Than Just Million-Dollar Images

![NFT
exhibition](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/fbase-2d77d.appspot.com/o/assets%2Fgold_is_in_the_block%2Fnft-meme.png?alt:%20media&token=2bb2871d-3f30-46e5-a950-0b355da703af)

Ask a random person about NFTs, and they’ll likely tell you it’s all
about the images. But in reality, it’s not just the image. It’s the
**token and the link to where the data is stored** that make it unique.
[Learn More about
NFTs](https://youtu.be/Oz9zw7-_vhM?si:%20ixDHbbbZv9fyJlVS)

**The actual image or any other data isn’t on the blockchain itself.**
It’s the proof that this digital asset belongs to you. Think about where
ownership matters most?

The answer is
[gaming](https://icoda.io/blog/nft-gaming-companies-and-trends-a-2024-perspective/)
Items like skins, swords, characters, or avatars can become NFTs,
allowing players to truly own and trade them.

Traditional methods of selling entire game accounts fall short in the
context of in-game economies. NFTs add a new layer to the gaming
experience by enabling the transfer of specific items.

Imagine being part of a special event within a game and having an NFT to
prove your exclusive possession of something.

It not only enhances the gaming experience but also lets you show off to
your friends, thanks to your ownership details right there on the
blockchain. **NFTs aren’t limited to gaming**, though. Companies can use
them to guarantee authenticity and traceability [Learn
More](https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/operations/articles/blockchain-supply-chain-innovation.html).

For example, if you run a shop selling T-shirts, you can record each
transaction on the blockchain, showcasing purchases from eco-friendly
providers.

Later, when the item is ready, you can create an NFT with a link to the
entire production process.

This allows consumers to verify the legitimacy of their purchase.

The beauty of it is that **you’re not restricted to existing
blockchains**. But I’ll save that topic for another post…

<br> Just remember, blockchain isn’t just about sketchy stuff. It’s a
whole playground waiting to be explored. Beyond all the hype, there are
some cool hidden features and possibilities to discover.

So, don’t let the noise get in the way of finding some awesome
opportunities in this world of blockchain tech.

[Great Starting Point for Blockchain](https://www.soldev.app/course)
